[docs] Add instructions to recreate a partition index (#31362)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/stable/api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index.md

Reviewer: Lets add a link to the "Recreate a partition index" section something like: 

- To rebuild unique indexes on partitions online without running `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY` on the parent, see [Recreate a partition index](#recreate-a-partition-index).

Number of partitions: 2 (Use \d+ to list them.)
```

Once all partitions successfully create their indexes, the partitioned index should automatically be promoted out of the INVALID state.

#### Recreating unique index constraints concurrently on partitioned tables

Suppose you have a partitioned table where the parent has a unique constraint.
To recreate indexes, you should avoid directly creating a replacement index on the (parent) partitioned table if it is concurrently taking writes because partitioned tables cannot use [CONCURRENTLY](#concurrently).
Furthermore, if you only want to recreate a subset of the partitions' indexes, recreating the (parent) partitioned index is wasteful.

> Follow these steps to recreate a partition index online:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can call out that object locking is a pre req and link to that section of docs @aishwarya24

CREATE UNIQUE INDEX CONCURRENTLY child0_i_unique ON child0 (i);
-- 2. Add CHECK constraint matching partition bounds (fast: no scan)
ALTER TABLE child0 ADD CONSTRAINT child0_partition_check
  CHECK (i IS NOT NULL AND i >= 0 AND i < 100000) NOT VALID;
-- 3. Validate the CHECK (slow, but non-blocking on parent)
ALTER TABLE child0 VALIDATE CONSTRAINT child0_partition_check;
-- 4. Lock the parent to prevent queries from missing the partition's data
--    while it is detached.
BEGIN;
LOCK TABLE parent IN ACCESS EXCLUSIVE MODE;
-- 5. Detach (fast)
ALTER TABLE parent DETACH PARTITION child0;
-- 6. Drop inherited constraint (fast: drops old backing index)
ALTER TABLE child0 DROP CONSTRAINT child0_i_key;
-- 7. Promote standalone index to a constraint (fast: no rebuild)
ALTER TABLE child0 ADD CONSTRAINT child0_i_key UNIQUE USING INDEX child0_i_unique;
-- 8. Reattach (fast: CHECK and UNIQUE already satisfy parent)
ALTER TABLE parent ATTACH PARTITION child0 FOR VALUES FROM (0) TO (100000);
COMMIT;
-- 9. Drop temporary CHECK constraint
ALTER TABLE child0 DROP CONSTRAINT child0_partition_check;
```

Repeat steps 1–9 for `child1`, `child2`, and any other partitions as needed.

> Step 4 to lock the parent is optional if there will be no reads or writes against the parent table while the partition is detached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< note title="Note" >}}

> Step 4 requires object locking support (available since 2025.2): set YB-TServer flags `enable_object_locking_for_table_locks=true` and `ysql_yb_ddl_transaction_block_enabled=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note title="Note" >}}

Step 4 to lock the parent is optional if there are no reads or writes against the parent table while the partition is detached, and it requires enabling object locking (supported from YugabyteDB {{<release "2025.2">}} or later).

To enable the feature, set the YB-TServer flags `enable_object_locking_for_table_locks=true` and `ysql_yb_ddl_transaction_block_enabled=true`. Refer to Refer to [Enable table-level locks](../../../../../explore/transactions/explicit-locking/#enable-table-level-locks) for more details.
{{< /note >}}
```
